there's this intense hatred especially
on the internet specifically for English
teachers specifically with this
cross-continental cross-cultural divide
you shouldn't really disrespect someone
for doing the job because they're paid a
lot and you shouldn't disrespect to pay
a little but I think English teachers
are in a double bind exactly that way
they're despised as if they make a lot
of money but then they're also despised
because they are seen as being like
babysitters or au pairs or being
equivalent to a kind of Filipino nanny
someone employed in this in this
capacity they're treated as the lowest
level of low paid disposable hired help
so that's one aspect and the only the
respite and want to deal with here is
cultural imperialism there's this
underlying resentment of the cultural
imperialism that uniquely separates and
yet tethers together white Western
civilization with Asian civilization
there's this feeling of resentment that
white Western culture white Western
imperialism creates the standards not
just for beauty but for everything for
all things from the utensils they eat
with to the inch the hour the days on
the calendar all the standards and
practices that define modernity and
society the watt light bulbs are in
watts who was mr. watt where there's
this resentment of the authority that's
uniquely tied to the role of the English
teacher and there's this there's this
irreconcilable political struggle of
East versus West and of course the irony
is that's the mean thing motivating
people to learn English but tied to that
motivation there's this resentment
that's not always conscious they're not
always aware of there's this resentment
that when I go to the gym oh it's it's a
white man on the wall as this symbol of
male virility and it's white women as
the symbol of beauty and everything
about the gym sorry if you stop and
think about it even just think about the
equipment or every piece of equipment
has a white Western name you know the
names of the machines the names of the
exercises we just think about it the
English language and
Ultra imperialism it's built into the
whole gym surrounding everything with an
Asian name is regarded as cheap and
local and things with an Italian name or
a French name or an English brand name
there is this you know and get most
people most of time don't consciously
resent this and don't consciously repel
against it but I think in many ways that
is a kind of undertone or
undercurrent that's poisoning and
vitiating the discourse about English
teachers over the teaching of English
about why people choose to study it and
why people are in effect forced to study
it when they don't want to there aren't
two different possible futures branching
off from the present right now there's
only one way this can go the one way
this can go is inevitably the whole
world needs to mature needs to grow up
and recognize the really fundamental
role played in people's lives by
language teachers you can't really have
a society in the 21st century that lacks
the facility of face-to-face language
instruction and not just for English for
English German Chinese it really is an
acute social need and it's a need for
education that isn't well provided by
prison style schools by hospital style
bureaucracies and at this time nobody
really has the answer yet neither in
terms of economic organization business
organization purely free-market
for-profit organization and we also have
the answer in terms of cultural
attitudes and expectations for how
language teachers are gonna exist within
a society to disrespect my but the fact
is that you know my name is I don't know
the background of this video might be as
interesting the foreground I've wanted
for some time to make a video about the
question why do people have so much
disrespect often intense disrespect and
hatred for English teachers and we are
really talking about the unique
cross-continental phenomenon of English
teachers abroad generally generally but
not always white Western people
stereotypically you've gone to Asia now
some of them are black some of them are
Hispanic some of them are Middle Eastern
ancestors on though people speak English
as a first language and go abroad now
the background of this video I've seen a
lot of hand-wringing about this a lot of
self-recrimination on YouTube there's a
jave lager the Japanese youtuber by
which I mean of course he is not
Japanese he's a white Western guy living
in Japan called Takeo Sam short for
Tokyo Sam
I've seen him I've seen him take so many
different angles on this I've seen some
videos where he's really sincerely
pleading to the camera look you've got a
respect English teachers these people
take care of your kids these people
raise your kids these people wipe your
kids nose you know it's teacher you end
up working with small children you this
stuff dealing with your kids sometimes
your kids are weeping so as you gets
vomit on the teacher this is this is the
reality of teaching these are loving
hard-working honest people who are
taking care of your kids not to mention
maybe teaching them a language cheating
them history politics you know whatever
else so you know show them some respect
where it's an honest clue of this and
I've seen him take the opposite extreme
where he's lamenting about his own life
and he's lamenting about the job and
he's saying he wished he never did this
or that he's got to get out of this life
where one way or another he's recreating
back on it now also part of the
background of this video there was a
really cynical and really insincere
hatchet job video about me nobody says
hatchet job anymore
people now say take down video but I
don't that doesn't make sense to me
because takedown has too many meanings
but there was a video denouncing me and
slandering me made by nor vegan and in
it he does a bunch of insensitive things
but one of the things he says says this
repeatedly he says that being an English
teacher and again he means being an
English teacher abroad he means
especially in Asia he says as a job
anybody can do that it doesn't need any
qualifications or any skills or any
background that all you need is to be to
be born English is you know this this is
insincere for a couple of reasons he I
know but I know he doesn't believe this
and you know why cuz his girlfriend
who's sitting right next to him on
camera that that's been her job that's
been her career when they met and fell
in love she was working as an English
teacher so I mean I know in that case
he's just saying this in order to insult
me in order to denounce me I know he
doesn't believe it I know that she his
own girlfriend when he met her at that
time she probably told him a lot about
how hard the job is the ways in which
it's a wonderful job the wisdom which is
a terrible job
the ways in which she struggles with you
know she would have gotten a sense of
that even if it's just just from her
but look if we just change the language
so I'm asking the question but I also
have a specific answer I want to deal
with here
what if somebody said all these same
things about a Spanish teacher someone
teaching the Spanish language let's say
it's in in New Orleans New Orleans is in
the United States America southern
United States these things these
horrible things that are said to
denounce English teachers as a common
place here on the Internet I think
people would be ashamed and embarrassed
to say about someone who moved to New
Orleans to teach Spanish to to black
people in New Orleans I mean right away
that image like okay let's say it's
someone born and raised in Spain someone
from Madrid and they've made the
decision to get the qualifications and
training to be a Spanish teacher and go
to the United States of America and
teach these kids and most of the kids
probably don't want to learn Spanish
they're there because they're forced to
be there and you think wow that's a
tough job and maybe think wow that's an
important job and maybe you think hmm in
a sense you're doing something beautiful
you're trying to make the world in a
better place you think hmm you know in
some ways it's an impossible task you
know I'm like what percentage of these
kids in New Orleans are gonna be able to
speak any Spanish ten years from now and
all of these things can be said mutatis
mutandis they can be said with minor
changes about being an English teacher
here in Asian how many of these kids are
or ever gonna speak English even at the
university level I was teaching at the
university level and I was in a special
program where they were supposed to be
the best of the best of the English
students and most of them couldn't speak
comprehensible English at the start of
the course how many of them would speak
comprehensible English five years from
now even though I won't give the other
details of the program they were really
they were specially selected they were
supposed to be career English teachers
themselves and and fewer than 5% of
these these kids who are ever gonna go
on to to speak English in any
significant way thrives and that's
looking at the university level not at
high school middle school or primary
school so so in some ways it's an
impossible task it's a daunting task
it's an
pourtant asked and there's so much
that's obviously rich and rewarding and
meaningful about it real birth teaching
English is not just teaching vocabulary
you know when we taught English in you
nan it's a hot climate they grow mangoes
they grow coffee in minutes this is a
tropical you know they're palm trees in
the streets that were and I started
asking the kids I had a series of
lessons with this dealing with life
in Arctic Canada hey how do you think
people build a house when they live in a
place where there's nothing but snow how
do you think people make a boat in a
culture where there is no wood you know
there are no trees there's no grass they
have no cows because cows eat grass you
know let's let's talk about this and I
taught them we taught them all kinds of
stuff about the history of Canada we
taught them about the first exploration
of Hudson Bay you know a British
colonial contact with indigenous peoples
and this stuff and we did it to teach
them English we also did it because it
makes the whole experience more
meaningful us more meaningful for us as
teachers not to mention more more
meaningful for them as students and the
result was really rewarding and really
intellectually stimulating for everyone
even though how many of those kids are
gonna are ever are gonna care about
English maybe some of them will later
look back and think whoa you know I once
had those two those two teachers you
know one from Canada with their nets
they said that's two point they really
care they really mean it
she's looking back years later mmm that
was kind of weird but that's about it I
mean I don't I don't think at that
school I don't know if even one of the
kids really wanted to learn English
you're really good maybe a couple now
the thing of maybe maybe two or three
kids out of 200 will really use the
education you've given them but hey
again there's this intense hatred
especially on the internet specifically
for English teachers specifically with
this cross-continental cross cultural
divide but if we said this about music
teachers the same kind of criticism
would be absurd if you teach piano to
children what percentage of the kids are
ever really gonna play piano
what percentage then we're gonna care
about what percentage they're gonna
value it what percent of the kids
like the music you're teaching you're
probably forcing them to play music they
despise they listen to hip-hop and
you're trying to force them to learn
classical it's it's a tough situation I
don't believe in music the same way I
believe in you know history and politics
and language is having real value for
everyone's life you know I just don't
think the technical aspects of playing a
guitar playing the piano or something I
don't think it's something that
rewarding or that meaningful in many
people's lives but if you're a music
teacher you got to be motivated you got
to get up do it again again so I'm not
just here to ask these questions as if
they can't be answered think they're I
think of our answers and there are
really specific answers one answer is
the misperception that teachers make a
lot of money right so there's a real
real simple issue here of perception
versus reality and in different cultures
that's worth the question whether it is
but here in Taiwan
that's come up again and again that
students parents Taiwanese your
co-workers everyone seems to assume that
a white Westerner is making a ton of
money doing this now in some ways that's
just kind of dodging the issue if you
were being paid a ton of money that
still wouldn't change the kind of
ethical analysis the situation oh wow
seen with the Spanish teacher okay so if
someone is paid to go from Madrid to New
Orleans and let's just say they're
teaching predominantly poor black
inner-city kids in New Orleans you don't
really want to learn Spanish who don't
respect the educational opportunity that
much and he said oh but this teachers
paid eighty thousand dollars a year
let's say huge amount still still
respect them you wouldn't then hate them
oh you're just here for the money you
know it wouldn't change it for me look
well okay gee you're getting a really
handsome wage doing this but good for
you you know
no of course in reality they're not I
mean in the United States of America
teachers are really underpaid guess what
Oh 2019 with very very few exceptions
English teachers are not well paid the I
could list off the exceptions you work
on an oil rig you work for an energy
extraction company getting danger pay
but you know corporate direct corporate
work for big corporations I saw an
advertisement to go and teach English in
Libya for an oil rig oil drink up
oil drilling company okay you know home
you know you must be willing to cope
with living in those harsh conditions I
knew a guy who taught English at mine
sites for a gold mining corporation and
he had to go out to work on a helicopter
so he sent him out in a helicopter he'd
stay at the mine site for like two weeks
and then he'd come back to the nearest
city and he'd get drunk and sleep around
and stuff it's my opinion or whatever
but you know it kind of encouraged this
sense of intense intense self-indulgence
when he did come back to civilization
from the mind say I've known some cases
there are there are a few exceptions but
for the most part no like the whole
education sector the wages normally are
embarrassingly low I was talking to
someone today we've had a series of job
interview slightly but I was just asking
the question I think I think she was a
bit embarrassed when I asked I said look
if I did this job for 10 years or 20
years what's gonna happen to me when I'm
60 years old I'm 40 so it is for 20
years where do you actually I asked her
remember I said do you think I'll
actually save up money for retirement
this between its it's a question we
talking with these really really low pay
things and then again anyway look what
either way you shouldn't really
disrespect someone for doing this job
because they're paid a lot and you
shouldn't disrespect me to pay a little
but I think English teachers are in a
double bind exactly that way they're
despised as if they make a lot of money
but then they're also despised because
they are seen as being like babysitters
or au pairs or being equivalent to a
kind of Filipino nanny someone employed
in this in this capacity they're treated
as the lowest level of low paid
disposable hired help which you know of
course is to some extent because they
don't unionize or they failed to
unionize they don't have collective
bargaining anyway it's it's due to a
failure to take over the leadership take
over the means of production it's it's
due to a failure of vision and
discipline on the part of teachers
themselves in part and of course it is
in part due to the cupidity of the of
the employers yes yes cupidity is a word
mmm
mmm here we go let's get out dictionary
app you pitted e going back to the 17th
century here cupidity noun greed for
money or possessions mm-hmm mm-hmm Latin
root QP t-tests yes my girlfriend is
there you go you learned a new word
today I don't know that the only word
you but today all right so that's one
aspect and the only the rest we don't
want to deal with here is cultural
imperialism I think for the best and the
worst people involved in this there's
this underlying resentment of the
cultural imperialism that uniquely
separates and yet tethers together white
Western civilization with Asian
civilization and I think we could say
the same thing with any of the cross
continental divides in English teaching
if we're done with Africa or Latin
America you know there'd be something
similar to be said about white Western
English teachers in Africa but age is
what we're talking about today in Asia
is what I know when I go in the subways
here currently so this is Taiwan and the
subway system I hate this
they have sexy advertisements that are
set up by the subway company themselves
it's its subway system and their
advertising safety and hold the handrail
and they have sexy drawings of women
like I'll hold the handrail in revealing
skin tight clothes okay and the women
are white almost all of them not always
also they have blonde hair
they have big boobs they're build their
ethnic features some of them have blue
eyes and blonde hair and stuff you know
they are they're obviously a white
Western standard of beauty right when I
went to the gym here I think I never
mentioned this on YouTube I went sorry
I've been to various gyms here many
times there was one gym I went where I
took a funny picture myself with a
picture of Arnold Schwarzenegger and I
told you I took other pictures all the
images of beauty on the wall all of them
were white and they were heavily
photoshopped they were like the faces
were so photoshopped that they they kind
of barely look human some of them but uh
uh you know so this is Asia and this is
a gym that particular gym 100
the customers are Chinese there were
it's not a just not that kind of
neighborhood and the walls are plastered
with in this particular gym there was a
huge billboard in front images of white
female beauty the white body the white
face the white hair the white world
there's this feeling of resentment that
white Western culture white Western
imperialism creates the standards not
just for beauty but for everything for
all things from the utensils they eat
with to the inch the hour the days on
the calendar that the rest of the world
Asia and Africa have been forced to
measure up to a standard both literally
and figuratively
them unless it measures you literally I
mean literally the ruler you're using
the meter the metric system all the
standards and practices that define
modernity and society the watt light
bulbs are in watts who was mr. watt he
wasn't shining and again eaves or even
within China even if you get into the
political reality and communism and so
on who was Karl Marx who was Lenin I
mean these are all white Western names
and white Western faces where there's
this resentment of the authority that's
uniquely tied to the role of the English
teacher and there's this there's this
irreconcilable political struggle of
East versus West and of course the irony
is that's the mean thing motivating
people to learn English but tied to that
motivation there's this resentment
that's not always conscious they're not
always aware of there's this resentment
that when I go to the gym oh it's it's a
white man on the wall as this symbol of
male virility and it's white women as
the symbol of beauty and everything
about the gym sorry if you stop and
think about it even you think about the
equipment or every piece of equipment
has a white Western name you know the
names of the machines the names the
exercises we just think about it the
English language and the cultural
imperialism it's built into the whole
gym surrounding you and of course the
brand names sorry again oh this stuff is
another part of my life but if you think
about fashion design and someone
everything with an Asian name is
regarded as cheap and local and things
with an Italian name or a French name or
an English brand name there is this you
know and get most people most of time
don't consciously resent this and don't
consciously rebelled against it but I
think in many ways that is a kind of
undertone or
undercurrent that's poisoning and
vitiating the the discourse about
English teachers over the teaching of
English about why people choose to study
it and why people are in effect forced
to study it when they don't want to
won't jump in babe so as I said at the
start the background of the video is in
some ways more dredge than the
foreground there aren't two different
possible futures branching off from the
present right now there's only one way
this can go the one way this can go is
inevitably the whole world needs to
mature needs to grow up and recognize
the really fundamental role played in
people's lives by language teachers and
the struggle because we've been looking
at what it's like to be a language
teacher in Europe and it's awful you
can't really have a society in the 21st
century that lacks the facility of
face-to-face language instruction and
not just for English for English German
Chinese it really is an acute social
need and it's a need for education that
isn't well provided by prison style
schools by hospital style bureaucracies
for the most part it relies on again you
can do a first meeting by Skype or by
email it relies on people being able to
find and connect with and cooperate with
tutors it relies on you know the
availability of affordable language
instructors at all levels for children
for elderly retired people and indeed
even for mining companies and oil you
know oil refineries
I'm not those guys those guys need
English teachers too again not just
English Chinese Arabic there are so many
languages that need this the military
needs I've met and spoke to so many
military men who were struggling to get
you know language arts
for the military and at this time nobody
really has the answer yet
neither in terms of economic
organization business organization
purely free-market for-profit
organization and we also have the answer
in terms of cultural attitudes and
expectations for how language teachers
are going to exist within a society and
so I think this kind of disrespect and
recrimination it's it's a sign of a
contradiction that's unresolved in our
attitudes in our economy in government
policy in the organization of Education
and you know it's a sign of a cultural
attitude in the future that's that's yet
to emerge I mean really people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know